# Family Recipes

Family Recipes is a website for storing your family's recipes. 



## Getting Started

1. Create a python3.9 venv by installing python3.9 and running `python3.9 -m venv .venv`.
2. Activate the venv with `source .venv/bin/activate`.
3. Install pip-tools: `pip install pip-tools`
4. Install all other dependencies with `pip-sync`
5. Copy the `.env-example` file into a `.env` file. The app will parse the variables in `.env` in into the app settings, in addition to any environment variables that you have set. Change the `SECRET_KEY` varible to the results of running `echo -n $(openssl rand -base64 128)`
6. Run the migrations:
```bash
alembic upgrade head
```
7. Install `yarn` if it isn't already installed: `npm install -g yarn`.
8. Install frontend dependencies: `pushd frontend && yarn && popd`.
9. Follow the instructions in https://www.section.io/engineering-education/how-to-get-ssl-https-for-localhost/ exactly.
10. Generate your own self-signed SSL certificate and key:
```
openssl req -x509 -out localhost.crt -keyout localhost.key \
  -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 \
  -subj '/CN=localhost' -extensions EXT -config <( \
   printf "[dn]\nCN=localhost\n[req]\ndistinguished_name = dn\n[EXT]\nsubjectAltName=DNS:localhost\nkeyUsage=digitalSignature\nextendedKeyUsage=serverAuth")
```
11. Start the api using uvicorn. `uvicorn api.main:app --ssl-keyfile=./cert/CA/localhost/localhost.key --ssl-certfile=./cert/CA/localhost/localhost.crt `. In a separate terminal session, run the frontend server: `pushd frontend && yarn dev`.
12. Visit http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs to see the available endpoints and try them out!


## Migrations

Migrations only exist in the `api` directory currently, as do all database models, which are stored in `models.py`.

We use `Alembic` to manage and run migrations: [Alembic Docs](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org)

To run migrations: `alembic upgrade head`.

To autogenerate a migration from a new table in `api/models.py`: `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Revision message"`


## Testing

This project uses `pytest` to run tests, activated by running `pytest`.

## Generating OpenAPI Schema

Run `python gen.py` from the project directory to generate the OpenAPI schema in `api/autogenerated/openapi.json`.